stupidity is real it's a force as
pervasive in our daily lives in a
crowded society as gravity or friction a
former well-known YouTube personality in
the vegan movement wacko Jacko Vigano
has come out swinging saying that in
real life
face-to-face nobody would ever say the
things that I've said or he would say
the things that I've implied it's reason
fit your response to him every everyone
everyone would just say oh no no your
mental health ought to be the priority
not ethics not taking responsibility for
the consequences of your actions no no
no no no you have to put your mental
health first not me homie and not when
what you're talking about as a solution
to your problems is bad and evil and
wrong and destructive and premise on a
pseudo-scientific lie meanwhile
elsewhere in the vegan YouTube
demi-monde
unnatural vegan has made yet another
video praising antidepressants
antidepressant drugs SSRI selective
serotonin me selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor drugs during
pregnancy she said how wonderful it is
to give birth and not have postpartum
depression because of these effective
drugs do you believe that the drugs are
effective have you looked at the hard
and disturbing scientific facts about
the efficacy and have you looked at the
effects on the health of the adult
person taking the drugs on the
developing fetus on the unborn child on
the newborn child have you looked at
that I would never say to a natural
vegan hey you know what's really
important here is your mental health
it's not mental health is a concept just
as vague just as subjective just as
culturally loaded as happiness if you
stop and thinking about it most of what
you mean by mental health is a
combination of
I know happiness self-discipline
equilibrium a few other concepts put in
put to a very large extent what we're
talking about is neither more precise
nor more scientifically measurable than
happiness unnatural vegan wants to
believe that taking these drugs will
make her happy she really believes that
and there is hard irrefutable scientific
evidence to the contrary that those
drugs do not have that effect on the
level etiology of a cause-and-effect
relationship they are not effective and
there is hard irrefutable scientific
evidence that she is doing damage to her
own health and that she has damaged the
health of her newborn child by taking
those drugs during present do you think
I would say as Jacko has suggested oh
well your top priority has to be your
mental health no no I don't believe that
at all didn't do you think I would say
to someone let's just say I was back in
in Laos let's just say I was back in
this small poverty-stricken country and
in Southeast Asia out there I worked
with all kinds of people but some of the
people I worked with they really
believed in black magic they really
believed in witchcraft they really
believed in traditional animist tribal
religion and they came to me and they
talk to me about ghosts they're talking
about problems they have with ghosts
they knew what was a scholar in Buddhism
that wanted my perspective on the
problems they were having with ghosts
and this kind of thing it happened you
know suppose one of them came to me and
said hey you know they're worried about
their mental health they're gonna cut
the throat of a goat and then drink the
hot goat blood that pours out of the
goats neck okay so I've worried about
that ritual northern Myanmar northern
Laos there are some traditional cultures
there that think that something that's
good for what ails you for a variety of
conditions including just exhaustion is
to drink hot blood and you know what I
read a description of someone who did
this ritual and it's very believable to
me he said you know if you drink this
hot goat blood afterwards
you feel you feel a little weird you
feel some kind of affect and hey goat
blood contains salt and fat you know
there's there are different reasons why
you feel some kind of non medically
valid one scientifically you feel
something after doing this ritual it's
partly psychosomatic it's probably
partly nutritional and chemical you know
people say they drink this hot goat
blood and it has I've got a very to them
okay I would never say to you no matter
what your problems are you've had a
nervous breakdown you have an identity
crisis you're depressed I would never
say to you you know what your mental
health is what matters and it just
doesn't matter at all that you've slit
the throat of a goat said recently in
another video on another topic this is
what it is to be an adult in the 21st
century and Jaco isn't just an adult
he's a parent nobody is gonna nanny you
nobody is gonna tell you to do the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
it's on you it's on you it's your
responsibility to be a person of moral
principle it's up to you a hundred
percent and nobody else to say hey you
know what I can suffer I can take this
on myself and it's not reasonable for me
to put this suffering on someone else or
something else it's not reasonable for
me to damage an unborn fetus to damage
your child because I want to get high
because you want to use drugs during
pregnancy
whether that's cocaine or government
dope I don't care it's not that's not
being responsible that's being
irresponsible and someone else suffering
the consequences of your decision
because you think it makes you feel good
and in these cases these three examples
antidepressants goat blood and whacko
Jacko Vigano going back to eating meat I
don't believe in the scientific reality
of the ideology so the fact that you
feel better very fundamentally is no
different from someone who punches a
wall and feels better if you're angry if
you're upset and you punch a wall makes
you feel better that doesn't mean it's
good
that doesn't mean it's right but hey
guess what
at least you're only punching a wall
you're not damaging an unborn child
you're not slitting the throat of a goat
you're not paying someone to raise an
animal in captivity and kill it so you
can eat the flesh off its bones the end
guess what
activism it should be all about
cooperation and mutual assistance and
forming a community and getting together
and planning a better future that's not
what I've seen in the last five years on
YouTube what I've seen is a process of
elimination and people like you Jacko
whether it's because you're too weak
you're too stupid or you're too crazy
you have been eliminated